From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 99. Recorded
live Thursday, February 3rd, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows four, an asp.net web
application online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Craigslist developer.
Jeremy's a widening. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. And this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. I think it's in
fact, episode one 99, we're
coming up on 200 with
this episode. We are very
lucky to have Jeremy's Rodney,
who is an employee of
Craigslist and formerly of Yahoo.
I thank you, sir, for
taking the time to chat
with me. So yeah, and
also thanks to Craig for
hooking this up. It just,
I love the Twitter, how
it makes us, it makes
people available. Craig was very
kind to, to facilitate this.
He's a, he seems very
active on Twitter too. I
follow him and he's all
over the place all over
the world, doing all sorts
of things. Yeah. He really,
he really is. So I
assume that he's not sitting
in the office, working with
you, coding Craigslist from day
to day at this point,
he's off being Craig. Yeah,
that's right. He's a, he's
off being Craig. Although he
does help out with, with
customer service type stuff, still
a fair amount of his
time. So he's he pokes
into the office once in
a while, but I think
mostly he works remotely from
home or from whatever corner
of the globe. He finds
himself in How many, how
many people work at Craigslist?
Hi, you know, our total
right now I've got to
guess is in the thirties
or something. It's, it's not
a lot of us. I
mean, it was, it was
20 or 25 for awhile
and we hired some people
last year and the year
before that myself included. So
we grew a little bit,
but it was still pretty
small compared to a lot
of companies that have the
kind of traffic we do.
And you're the head of
development, is that correct? No,
I don't know. I know.
I mean, I'm not, I
shouldn't say, I don't know.
Well, let me rephrase the
question then. How many developers
are there and are you
all peers or how do
you kind of manage the
workload? Yeah. So where there's,
I mean, it's something like
eight or nine of us
right now and yeah, we're
all we're up here. I
mean, we try to bring
in, we try to be
in bringing people who are
pretty experienced in and, and
don't need a lot of
direction and all just work
together on things and we
all report to the CTO.
So he's ultimately the one
who's kind of helping hurt
us and figure out what's
important and what we should
be working on. But, you
know, we get a lot
of freedom to work on
the projects that are important
in any given time. And
how long, how long have
you been there? You've been
there since what, 2008. Middle
Of 2008. So it's maybe,
I don't know, a year
and seven months now or
something like that. Yeah. I
left Yahoo in June of
that year and then started
Craigslist in July. Now why,
why would you leave Yahoo
being such a big place
where you could work on
problems of a certain kind
size scale breadth to work
at Craigslist, which I think
is arguably as a narrow
focus. Oh yeah, definitely. I
mean, a lot of it
goes back to when I
first got out of school,
I always sort of thought
myself working in a small
organization and it was kind
of a joke on myself.
Cause the first job I
took out of school was
to work at a 40,000
person oil company. I worked
at marathon oil and back
then though, the web was
all fairly new and companies
are trying to figure out
what to do with it.
And so I was there
for a few years, helping
out with our intranet development
and help launch their public
marathon.com website. And then I
just happened to see in
an ad for a posting,
for a job at Yahoo
and Yahoo finance, which I
was actually part of guy
who I used the most
at the time, came out
to California and worked at
Yahoo when it was, you
know, it started, there was
like 2000 people. I was
employee 20,013 or 2036 or
something like that. And, and
it just, you know, it
just got bigger over time.
And I think the Hunt's
going to getting bigger is
it gets more challenging to
do certain things. So I
was kind of looking, I've
been looking for a change
for a while and I
think that change was going
to a much smaller organization
and I couldn't have gotten
much smaller than Craigslist and
still work on problems that
I think are interesting as
the ones I get to
work on. Yeah. I think
Craigslist is unique in the
sense that it is absolutely
kind of globally visible, but
it sounds like a boutique
there's lots of little 30
person shops out there in
the world. They just don't
have any kind of the
reach and the traffic that
Craigslist does. Yeah. It's pretty
amazing. I mean, it's just,
it's it's we have got
our way, we've got a
little webpage we can look
at internally to watch kind
of all sorts of realtime
numbers from our servers and
sort of our total traffic
volume and things like that.
You know, I look at
the, the hits per second,
we're doing are the searches
per second, are the posts
coming in? And it's just
this phenomenal number and it's,
you kind of look at
it. And it's like, we,
we, what we really created
is a sort of a
machine that runs itself for
the most part. And we
were just there to give
it maintenance and, and provide
enhancements once in awhile because
it's the, I mean the
millions of people using the
site every day that really
make it all work. We
just, we just put the
bare bones infrastructure in place.
Well, what can you tell
me about this, about the,
the size of this and,
and what it's written in?
Kind of just give us
a sense of, I think
a lot of people who
listen to the show, you
know, they're familiar with web
farms and putting together many
machines to do the work.
What, what is this built
on? How many boxes are
there just a general sense
of the lay of the
land? Yeah, we've got something
in the neighborhood of, I
think 500 total servers in
our, in our two data
centers right now we have
a data center in San
Francisco and one Arizona and
the bulk of the site,
all the front end. It's,
it's all, probably 95% of
our code is written in
Pearl. And I'd say a
fair chunk of that as
mob pro code running under
Apache. And that is all
the interactive stuff that users
deal with. And then we
also have some custom services
that are written some front
end, some backend services also
written in Pearl. And we've
got a few little bits
of code here and there
that are written in C
or C plus plus for
performance reasons, just because it's,
it's something we really had
to optimize, or it's a
third party, you know, it's
the third party opensource tool,
for example, you know, my
SQL was written in C
plus plus, and we use
my SQL, but most of
the code we write in
is in Pearl and a
little bits of CNC plus
plus here and there. And
we've got, you know, we've,
we've got our, our infrastructure
divided into lots of different
tiers. Like I think a
lot of other large websites
do, you know, we've got
our sort of database tier,
which has lots of different
clusters of databases and it,
you know, we've got one
for all the postings, another
one for all the users
and other one for our,
our images and other one
for our abuse, metadata, and
so on, you know, there's,
there's three or four others,
things like building and finance
and other stuff. We've got
a web server tier of
course, which has groups again,
clusters a web servers in
there. We've got separate clusters
for read traffic, separate clusters
for right traffic, a separate
cluster for search traffic. And,
and then we've got a
bunch of more specialized things.
I think the, the biggest
one is our front end
proxy. We don't run, we
don't run any of the
open source proxy servers. We
probably could, but we have
an in house written one
that, that integrates tightly with
memcache and we use memcache
very, very heavily to cash.
A lot of our data,
which helps makes it helps
us to be very, very
efficient from not just a
performance point of view, but
also from outlet sort of
equipment, power savings point of
view, too. We, I remember
years ago when I was
going to conferences and saw
someone from Craigslist, give a
presentation and they would often
put this graph up on
the, on the presentation that
showed page views per kilowatt
hour. And most of the
large websites fell pretty well
on this, this reasonable looking
curve. And then the real
outlier was Craigslist, which was
doing like 10 or 20
or 50 times as many
page views per kilowatt hour.
And the reason was we,
we found ways to do
things very, very efficiently. They
keep our power footprint down
as well. Can you, can
you walk me through of
the process as someone puts
a, an ad on Craigslist
and what's happening because there's,
there's kind of, you know,
legend and mystery kind of
surrounding Craigslist. And, you know,
if you visit a Craigslist
post, it looks like it's
just static, HTML being served.
Cause a URL looks like
static, HTML. And I wondered
about how, you know, how
do you manage session, logging
someone in and all that
kind of authentication authors' authorization
process. You know, someone can
just show up, hit post,
they can add images. They
can, you know, do a
lot before they're even asked
to kind of log in
at that point what's happening
in the backend. Okay. So
the other, and actually the
reality is people never really
have to log in. In
some cases I walked through,
I walked through this for
a, my SQL meetup a
few months ago with a
big whiteboard. So I'll try,
I'll try to do it
without the whiteboard. Now basically
when, when, when your browser
comes to your Craigslist from
the read point of view,
some huge percentage of our
traffic is coming straight out
of cash. So you're going
to hit that front end.
You're gonna hit a load
balancer, which is going to
send you to a front
end proxy, our memcache proxy,
we call it or MCP
for short, and it will
simply check the check the
URL you're looking for and
likely find it in cash
and send it back to
you. And, and that's, it.
It never, never goes deeper
into our systems than that.
I mean, of course we
logged the traffic as well,
but on the right side,
when you want to come
and actually post something, you're
browsing Craigslist, you hit the
post link and then you
start through our posting process
and all of that traffic
is happening between you again,
the front end proxy. And
then one of our Apache
web servers in the right
cluster handles all of our
right traffic. And what's happening
is the posting process is
kind of a multistep process
where you can put in
your posting title, the dollar
amount, if you're selling something,
the body of the posting,
and then you do have
the option to upload images
and things like that. And
you can also walk through
a, a tree of locations
to decide where in the
geography you want your item
to appear. And most of
that interaction is happening between
you and that, that right
web server. And a lot
of the session state is
being stored in Memcached. And
there's a cookie going back
and forth between the browser
and that Apache process that's
handling your request. So we
can, we can fetch that
data out of memcache and
keep the state there. And
we don't have to, we're
not persisting that in a,
in a data store, longterm
on a behind the scenes.
So it never hits the
disc. And what will happen
is when the posting is
entered, we will write that
into the postings database, into
a series of tables and
also the images get uploaded
and sent off to our
image system. And from the
front end, it looks pretty
simple and it re and
it really is those those
things happen. And then, then
you get a page that
says, you know, thanks for
posting on Craigslist. Your posting
should be visible in 10
to 15 minutes or whatever
the exact text that messages
nowadays, and then behind the
scenes, what happens is some
other processes get kicked off
that help kind of propagate
your posting up to the
site. One of those is
that we have a specialized
service that is we call
our, our table of 10
table of contents for our
talks, a demon that runs
and its sole purpose is
to facilitate very, very fast
browsing of the site when
you're drilling through categories and
kind of going back through
time. So it's a service
that knows can maintains the
sorted list in memory of,
of posting IDs, which is
that numeric posting number that
shows up in the URL
and also on the page.
So our, our read web
servers, for example, when you,
when you say, I want
to see the most recent
items in, for sale in
San Francisco Bay area, the
regions red cert web servers
will ask the table content
server for the list of
the hundred, most recent posting
ideas in a given category,
any given city, and they'll
spit them back in, you
know, a millisecond or whatever,
ridiculously small amount of time
it takes. And, and so
list of IDs, the web
server can then turn around
and ask another service, which
is we call our posting
cash for all the data
metadata about those postings. And
so the posting cash is
a custom demon that we
have running that stores structured
Pearl data structures memcache. And
so it's basically the web
server is going to get
that list of posting ideas,
turn around that's the posting
cash for all that data,
get that response back and
then format the web page.
And then you, yep. So
that's, that's for it to
see an individual that's a
see a page of listings.
And then when you want
to see that, it seems
the page wasn't cashed because
if it was cash, our
proxy would have just served
it. Okay. Gosh, right now,
if you, I want to
see an individual listing, of
course, you'll click on the
individual listing. And the same
kind of thing happens. Request
goes to, you know, through
the proxy, assuming that's not
in cash, it goes back
to a read web server
and a read web server
has that posting ID because
it was in the URL
and it fires off a
request again to our posting
cash and says, you know,
give me all the data
for this posting that comes
back again on a memcache
typically. And if it's not
a memcache, it will fall
back and pull that out
of my SQL and then
throw it in M cash
and return the data. And
then it's able to just
render the page for you.
And then it lives in
cash for however many minutes
has set in until it
expires. The probably the most
dynamic people will have then
is on the search side.
If you're actually searching Craigslist,
it's the same sort of
mechanics. What happens is, you
know, your request comes in.
And if it's a, if
it, if the URL is
already cashed, we serve it.
You out of the cash,
if not, it hits a
search web server. And then
that fires off a request
to our backend cluster of
Sphinx machines. So we use
the open source, Sphinx indexing
engine for all of our
search and spanked just like
that table of contents, Dean,
that I mentioned, you fire
it a query. And what
it spits back is a
list of these posting ideas
in sorted order and a
B code list of posting
ideas, ask the posting cash
for all the metadata, for
the posting ideas, and then
renders the page using the
same sort of routines for
date formatting and everything else
that, that the table of
contents rendering is so well,
we have happening on the
backend is there's a lot
of, I mean, we've got,
I started my SQL, we've
got the large Mim cash
pools that hold all those
metadata and those data in
memory. And then we've got
these other services that are
sort of like loose external
indexes or queryable services that
can answer in terms of
a list of posting ideas
or a single posting ID
for request, Hey everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
No doubt. You probably bump
into testing tasks now, and
then, and your work and,
you know, writing functional tests
is probably not your favorite
thing. It's kind of difficult.
It takes time and the
results can be dubious. Well,
get ready to start liking
tests. Thanks to Tellerik with
the, the new whereby testing
framework building web automation test
is a breeze. You've got
code automation with advanced asp.net
Ajax and server light applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio, unit testing, also
end unit X unit and
NBA unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax, and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free Friday got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. At what point
will this not scale I'm
so sure you do capacity
planning your, your number. There
is up in the mid
billion, you know, 1.5 billion
a year posting ID number,
but at what point will
this, I mean, it's like
the entire, let's say that
every single person who is
currently alive on the planet
uses Craigslist, what will break
first? Is it the, is
it the memcache you'll just
need more memory or will
it be the big, you
know, I mean, as you,
you know, that there are
instances of things out there,
like Twitter and like Facebook
that have similarly organized things,
it seems to be kind
of how things are organized
nowadays, but I'm curious when
doing capacity planning, do you
just plan on all current
available humans and plan from
there we can do with
the entire population, then we'll
be fine. I think, and
also the, the kind of
approach that I've taken and,
and several of us kind
of take to capacity planning
is we look at things
and there's really kind of
two, two fundamental things we
want to know. I think
given time, one of them
is what is the current
bottleneck? What's the slowest piece
of the infrastructure what's gonna
break first, if things just
start ramping up, what break
first? And then the second
piece is what is our
typical growth rate look like?
You know, different, different activities
on the site grow at
different rates. You know, are
we doubling every year? We're
doubling every six months. Are
we doubling every week? You
know, things like that. And
I can give you a
real world example of that
just just this week. It
was on Monday, Tuesday this
week. I I've been watching.
I deal with a lot
of the search infrastructure and
I've been noticing that the
number of searches that hit
the backend search infrastructure is
significantly higher than it was
even a month ago. And
I'm scratching my head going,
you know, what's wrong? Is
there some new bot out
there that's scraping us for
search and trying to grab
all the listings or, you
know, what's going on and
started looking at these numbers
and, and, you know, grab
the last years worth of
data, plotted it out, looked
at it. Several other people
who've been there longer than
I have looked at. It
says, well, yeah, often get
a big bump like this
in January. And it's just
kind of like the new
plateau and, and that helped
because it's like, okay, maybe
there isn't some, and we
dug into the data and
it doesn't look like there's
some big new bot out
there attacking us. It looks
like there's just a lot
more searching going on. So
that, that helps kind of
set my expectations about what
the growth rate looks like.
But the other piece of
it is what's the, what's
the slowest part of the
system. Where's the most fragile
piece of infrastructure. And I
think that is probably the
thing that we end up
focusing on the most, because
our we're big enough now
that we're not going to
be doubling every week or
doubling every month or anything
like, like Twitter was a
few, you know, a year
ago or, or of the
other sites when they go
through the big growth spurt,
we're in that mode now
where we're definitely growing, but
we're growing at a more
predictable rate. And, and that
helps a lot in the
scaling process because we can,
we can plan ahead. We
can say, well, we think
we know we need to
do, and we need to
have it done in nine
months versus having it done
tomorrow. And we can try
to plan and do things
right. A current w you
know, if everyone started using
Craigslist today, what would, what
would happen is we would
simply run out of steam
on the database side right
now. That's our single slowest
piece of infrastructure. And we're
actually in the midst of
doing a pretty major overhaul
of our database backend. And
we're moving away from database
boxes with large radar rays
of fast drives to database
boxes that use solid state
storage so that we can
get rid of the bottleneck
and the bottleneck that comes
from having seek times that
are actually measurable because once
your data can't fit completely
cashed in Ram, then the
seek time on disc becomes
a big bottleneck. And that's
what we've been running into.
So that's kind of where
we're at right now. How
do you do maintenance? How
do you swap this out?
I mean, when you're doing
brain surgery on a person
who's walking around and they
need to keep standing up,
do you bring Craigslist down,
or are you going to
do this in a organized
and bringing know, bring one
site down at a time
fashion? So there's a couple
answers to that question in
the past. So we've, we've
got, we've got capabilities built
into most of our code
to respect a sort of
a glow, a couple of
global flags that we can,
we can twiddle. And, you
know, with a couple of
minutes notice, so we can
put the site into what
we call read only mode
and a read only mode.
What happens is people can
browse the site as normal
and in searches work and
all sorts of things work.
It's just that people can't
put new postings up so
that we've actually used read
only mode pretty effectively to
do various types of maintenance.
And one of the things
we try to do when
we're planning out maintenance is
try to come up with
a way to do it
in the least impactful way
as possible. So that what
we can do is say,
if it's, you know, we
have to add the columns
to a database table is
what we'll do is we'll
do that on one of
the slaves and clone that
to another slave and clone
those two out to more
kind of keep spreading the
new scheme at all the
available databases until there's only
one left and that's the
master. And then we have
go into a read only
mode in order to either
alter the master or promote
one of the slaves to
be the new master and
make that switch happen. And
then we have, we have,
you know, we have the
ability to turn off and
on other services on the
backend. You know, for example,
if we had to turn
off images for a little
while, we could turn off
images for a little while
and to disabled search, we
could disable search. So it
it's, it's exceedingly rare unless
there's some major network problem
that someone tries to go
to Craigslist and just doesn't
get a response, or it
gets a server error more
typically they'll have some form
of degraded service if we're
doing maintenance. And in the
case of read only mode
since such a huge percentage
of our traffic has read
traffic, the end result is
that most people don't even
notice where in read only
mode because we try to
keep those pretty short. I
noticed I'm looking at a
Craigslist in other countries and
there's is internationalization. So if
you go to like Berlin,
there's English and there's German,
but I don't see any
non-English characters. That's right. We
were in the midst of
a, one of, one of,
several of our sort of
internal infrastructure and code upgrade
projects going on right now
is trying to make all
of our code utfh friendly
and, or I should say
Unicode friendly. And it's a
question of how we're going
to do that. And we've,
we started going down this
road a couple months ago
and, and we're really we're
in that phase of the
project right now where it's
like, we kind of understand
what the major issues are
and we're trying to scope
it out and get that
ballpark estimate of what we
think, you know, how much
work are we going to
bite off if we decide
to do this and what's
the right way to do
it? You know, a good
example of that is as
I'd written some code that
would, I could point it
at a database server and
it would walk all the
tables and find all the
tech columns and check them
and give me a report
of how many rows or
how many cells, right? How
many, how many actual individual
values looked like Latin one
versus windows 1252 versus UTF
eight, and, and try to
get some sense of what
that, what that looks like.
And then the next thing
is going to be, if
we make it, depending on
which approach we take, are
there changes, we're gonna make
what we're going to start
in coding certain characters that
would cause some amount of
our data to overrun the
available storage, because you got
to call them to find
for 80 characters. And if
you decide to start in
coding everything, it's not ASCII
as HTML entities. For example,
certain things may get so
big that they blow out
the available space. And then
we have a data truncation
issue, and we need to
scope out some of that
as well. It's not an
easy project because we have
a lot of code and
we have a lot of
very organic code that has
grown up over, you know,
the 10 or 12 years
that Craigslist has been around.
And, but the nice thing
is, many of the people
wrote that code are still
around. It's just that even
though they may not be
proud of it, they can
get into it and remember
what it does and what
it's there for. But it,
it suffers from, I think
some of the same symptoms
that lots of organic codebases
do, which is you go
back to it after a
few years of using it
and say, God, you know,
I wish I'd, I wish
we'd built this abstraction layer
in place here because you
know, we've got too much
SQL embedded dollar code, or
we've got too many different
remote parts of our code
base that have an intimate
understanding of the structure of
this one thing. And we
should have wrapped it as
an object so that we
could change the underlying implementation
when we needed to and
not have to go update
15, 20, 30 different files.
So we're kind of, we're
kind of scoping that prob
process out right now, but
we do have translation of
the site in a whole
bunch of languages. And actually
we have more coming soon.
There's we have internally, I
believe I don't lead our
internationalization work, but I believe
we have a version of
the site that is mostly
utfh friendly already, but we're
not completely there yet. What
causes you to put a
site in the country's list
on the homepage versus sticking
it in slash about slash
sites? Cause there's a number
of countries that are listed
in the larger about sites
that aren't listed on the,
on the, on the homepage.
I, I can only speculate
on that because that's not
a change I'm typically involved
in. Yes, our, our CEO,
Jim Buckmaster actually is very
good at suggesting changes to
the homepage when we need
changes to the homepage. And,
and often he also goes
through the process every once
in a while of helping
us identify which new cities
Craigslist should be in. So
sometime in the last year,
I don't remember the exact
date. We relaunched Craigslist in
like another a hundred and
a hundred, 200 cities worldwide.
And so we went from
whatever, 500 to 700, I
don't even remember the exact
numbers, but we, we really
grew the number of cities
we're in. And he had
been, he had been keeping
track for a long time
places. He thought we should
be in or more importantly,
watching all the feedback and
reading the forums on Craigslist,
which is kind of a
piece of Craigslist. Everyone forgets
is there, the forums actually
have a fair amount of
activity going on in them.
He'll go in there and
look for feedback. And people
say, gosh, you know, Craigslist
should be in the city.
You know, I live in,
I live in whatever city
and some part of the
country or some part of
the world and the nearest
Craigslist to me is four
hours away. I wish my
city could have one. And
he looks all that feedback
tries to figure out what's
reasonable. And then we'll what
kind of drop a list
on us and say, Hey,
here's what I'm thinking of
is all the new cities
or in the case of
homepage changes or changes to
how things are presented and
say, well, based on feedback
and some other ideas that
I'm thinking we should do
this and we'll mock it
up internally and look at
it. And if there's any
debate, we'll debate it a
little bit and eventually come
to some sort of consensus
and do it. But I
don't know if the motivation
for putting things on the,
on the homepage there is
to increase awareness of them
or to show any sort
of preference. It's, I'm not,
I don't have a lot
of insight into how that
process works. Yeah. It'll be
really interesting to see the
utfh thing gets sorted out.
If people will keep speaking
English on Craigslist, even the
Paris Craigslist is in English
by default. Yeah, it is.
It is. And the funny
thing in, in the case
of most of European languages,
there's no real reason. There's
no need for that because
though we can't, we can't
handle wide characters. We, we,
I believe are good with
any Latin one or windows
1252. So all the accented
characters for the most part
work, there are a couple
small backend issues where things
don't quite work right there.
But, you know, I kinda
wonder is, is this a
chicken and the egg problem?
It's like, if people just
saw more French postings in
the Paris Craigslist, would they
be more apt to just
post in French? Or is
it primarily English natives or,
you know, native English speakers
who, who moves to Paris,
who happened to know of
Craigslist before they got there?
Are they the ones using
it? And these are the
things I don't know, we
can speculate about, but, but
yeah, you're right. I've noticed
that too browsing around various
various cities around the world,
you see a lot more
English than you do whatever
their native language might be.
Well, definitely brings up an
interesting question around crowdsourcing. In
the sense of, you may
go to all this work,
to do your utfh and
find that no one cares
because they want to speak
English and Craigslist because of
some perceived inertia or it's
cultural or whatever. Like I'm
looking right now at a,
a buried Craigslist site, Addis
ababa.craigslist.org, the Ethiopian Craigslist site.
It's, it's a wasteland, there's
one job posting. And when
I go to for sale,
there's a command 94 Camaro,
but it's a guy in
named Doug from Crestwood, Kentucky.
So apparently Doug has gotten,
has gotten lost and has
posted that he's selling his
Camaro in the ADIs Abba
section of Craigslist. There's literally
no Ethiopians in the section.
And that may, yeah, they
may, that may have been
someone who found a Craigslist
posting tool and decided to
see what it would do
for them. I don't know.
Yeah. It's interesting. I noticed
when I hover in the
corner of, of the Craigslist,
there's a little tiny link
that looks like there's like
Craigslist. And then there's a
superscript that says like a
country code and it links
to geo.craigslist.org. What is that?
You have that craigslist.org. So
that link should take you
to a list or a
page of all the different
places that Craigslist is available.
Although Do you, do you
sniff where I'm at? Like
if I revisit Craigslist and
another country, will you, will
you figure me out and
send me there? You know,
we've, I feel really dumb
for not knowing the answer
to that. Cause we've talked
about doing that, but I
don't know that we have
that code live right now.
If we, we do, we
do use a couple of
cookies, but if you come
as a completely fresh user
to the site, I believe
the default experience today is
that what we do is
present you with a large
list. Yeah. I asked you
to pick, but yeah. Would,
yeah. We've talked about the
idea of, and honestly we've
kicked a lot of ideas
internally about what the future
should look like. And a
lot of that has to
do with being smarter about
various geo things, you know,
defaulting people to the right
place and trying to put
more geologic into things like
searches and presentation of listings
and things like that. Wow.
So there, there is definitely
a lot more to Craigslist
than I, than I realized.
I'm curious though, since you're
such a right friendly site,
that you, you really encourage
people to give you data,
you don't even force people
to log in. Like you
said earlier, in order to
give data, isn't Craigslist, just
a big denial of service
attack kind of waiting to
happen is that your primary
engineering problem that people are
spamming you, It's a, is
definitely a problem. And at
various times it is our
primary problem. Although not all
the time, we do have
to deal with, with people
who are spamming us. And
they're, you know, if you
kind of go look in
the seedy underworld of affiliate
marketing forums on the web
and things like that, you'll
see folks trying to sell
tools that spam us and
things like that. So, you
know, we, we look at
that and try to put
reasonable limits in place. And
it's a balance between putting
limits in place that let
legitimate users do the things
that they want and need
to do on the site
and trying to keep the
bad guys out. And it's
like any other form of
abuse online, it's sort of
an arms race. You know,
we, we add new new
defense mechanisms in place and
they, you know, they upped
the ante on their side
as well and get smarter
about what they're doing. But,
and the thing, the thing
we probably try the hardest
to get control of are
the scams because people come
to Craigslist and the people
have this innate desire to
try to get a good
deal on something. So they
see a, a listing for
something that looks a little
too good to be true,
and sometimes they fall for
it. And what what's on
the other end is someone
who's trying to take their
money. Not someone who's trying
to sell them a car
or a vacation rental or
whatever it is they're looking
for. And it's, we, you
know, we try to put
a lot of warnings on
the website if you browse
around and you'll see warnings
about, you know, not looking
for Western union transfers or
cashier's checks. And the single
biggest piece of advice we
give people is to do
deals locally. You know, Craigslist
is all about local transactions.
So if you want to
buy a car or try
to do it in your
home city, where you can
meet the person, see the
car and have it checked
out by mechanic, all that
kind of stuff. But, you
know, there's, there's always some,
some fraction of people out
there who are looking for
a great deal and, and
in the process kind of
put common sense aside. And
the trouble is even if
that's a small fraction of
people, we have such a
large volume of people that
that is going to happen.
And so we're, we're trying
really hard and, and always
trying new things that can
reduce the amount of trouble
on the site. And, you
know, the reality is we
can, we can talk about
this a lot, but it's
a, it's a very small
percentage of the stuff on
the site. And we feel
like we're making some real
progress on that too. Yeah.
You know, I, I don't,
I don't, I don't come
into a lot of spam.
I don't see a lot
of, I haven't had any
problems with Craigslist. I hear
all sorts of nightmare scenarios,
but I've been using it
in here. I'm in Portland,
Oregon for a years, sold
my car. I'm actually thinking
about selling a house on
Craigslist. Well, is that, and
that's great. And it's funny.
So I've had, I've had
a similar experience. I think,
I think the issue is
that those of us in
the tech community, and especially
those who were working at
Craigslist are, are much more
apt to hear the hear
about the problems and all
the success stories. Because when
things would just work, as
they're supposed to, nobody, nobody
sees that as remarkable or
unusual. And nobody says anything
about it. It's when something,
something becomes a problem or
something makes the headlines that,
that suddenly, and that's what
everyone remembers. But the reality
is, you know, there's, there's
millions of transactions happening every
day that the people don't
talk about because they're just
normal day to day things.
You know, Greg, a great
example of this is around
Christmas time this year I
was, I was getting my
wife, some, some, some woodworking
tools for Christmas. And we
went around, looked in Craigslist,
found people, selling things we
wanted, and we'd go look
at them. And in the
course of interacting with the
person we, they do ask,
Oh, where do you work?
And I would say, Oh,
I worked at Craigslist. And
the response I got was
always amazing. People like, wow,
really? That's cool. What do
you do there? Craigslist is
great. I've sold things on
Craigslist. I'd love Craigslist. You
guys are awesome. And, and
not a single person that
I've met in person in
dealing with in a circumstance
like that has said anything
negative about it. So that's
kind of getting out of
getting out from behind the
computer screen and going out
and talking to real people.
It kind of helps me
get a more balanced view
of what people really think
of the site. So Well,
it's, it's, it's definitely something
special. I'm sure that Craig
knows that in you and
the, and the folks at
Craigslist appreciate that. Oh, definitely.
Yeah. And it's, it's, it's
neat. It's like, you know,
we, we, we've got this
great community of users out
there and we know we're
doing something that people like
and people will get a
lot of value from it.
And it's great that we
can do this and not
have to put up a
lot of hoops for people
to jump through. And also
it's, it's great that we're
in an, you know, our
company is an environment where
it's small enough and it's
not bureaucratic so that when
things come up, like when,
when the, the, the earthquake
hit Haiti, you know, we
were having a discussion internally
right away about what can
we do to help the
people in Haiti and, you
know, the Haiti earthquake relief
link right on the homepage
now. And that went up
pretty quick. And, but we're
also big enough that, you
know, we started getting inquiries
from people at the state
department in the Obama administration
saying, Hey, what, what, what,
what can you do to
help? These are some resources
we're trying to pull together.
Can you get involved in
his discussion about how other
big websites can help with
the relief effort in Haiti?
So we can get pulled
into things like that at
the same time, nimble enough
to be able to do
that without getting in there
and getting in our own
way. That's very cool. Well,
we'll Jeremy, thank you so
much for sitting down with
me today and talk to
me about what's what's going
on in technology Craigslist. Oh,
sure. No problem. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.